If a meteorite impacted the Earth creating
an expanding iridescent bubble that caused
the death of anyone who entered, what would
you do?
In this requested How to Beat video, we’ll
follow the scientists, see if we can make
better decisions, and ultimately attempt to
beat the Shimmer in, Annihilation.
Think you could do better?
Let us know in the comments.
Like these how to beat videos?
Like and subscribe for more.
Want
to request or vote for
a movie, visit my reddit page.
Let’s get to it.
We start out following Lena, a cellular biology
professor and Army veteran, being questioned
after returning as the sole survivor of an
expedition to an anomalous zone known as the
"Shimmer".
The interrogator asks her how she survived
on a few days worth of food rations, when
they recounted that she was inside the Shimmer
for 4 months.
Lena replies that she only thought she was
inside for a few days.
Given the alien and unknown nature of the
Shimmer, it’s possible there is a time dilation
inside its borders.
However, Lena did say that all of her team
members mysteriously died and vanished.
I don’t want to jump to conclusions here,
but we can’t rule out Natalie Portman whacking
her teammates and eating them.
We then rewind to a couple weeks before her
expedition into the Shimmer.
She’s dealing with depression from losing
her soldier husband who was missing in action
for the past year after a covert op went sideways,
as far as she was told.
After 12 months of nothing, he shows up at
home.
Only it’s not the type of reunion you see
in YouTube videos where the soldier shows
up, hugs his wife, gives their dog a belly
rub, and they take their kids to go get ice
cream.
Kane looks like his sanity and soul got sucked
out of his body.
He’s unable to recall what happened or how
he got here.
He also says something interesting, that he
showed up at the house, saw Lena, and ‘recognized
her’, and that’s why he entered her house.
Whatever happened to him, it must’ve triggered
a massive dissociative disorder.
With the added complication of throwing up
blood.
En route to the hospital they get hijacked
by a bunch of unmarked black vans full of
spec ops soldiers.
The next thing Lena knows is that she’s
waking up in a detention cell, being questioned
about her husband by a psychologist.
She quickly realizes that she should probably
get a lawyer before answering any more questions,
which would normally be a good call, but it
doesn’t work very well when you're at a
CIA blacksite and they just refuse.
Knowing Lena’s prodigious credentials in
cellular biology and her intimate relationship
with one of the soldiers sent into the Shimmer,
they give her front row seats to the phenomenon
and debrief her on what they know, which isn’t
much.
It appeared three years ago after a meteorite
impacted next to a lighthouse, and when the
park warden went to check it out, he never
returned.
Can we just pause on this for a second.
I get the appeal of wanting to check out an
alien phenomenon, but maybe carelessly wandering
into an alien bubble you know nothing about
was a stupid idea?
I digress.
Since then they’ve sent in drones, animals,
and teams of people by air, land and sea to
investigate it, but nothing and noone that
entered the Shimmer ever came back out.
That is, until Lena’s husband did, albeit
not unscathed.
He’s suffering from multiple organ failure
among many other things.
Apparently their examinations of Kane haven’t
revealed any new information, nor had they
even detected him leaving the Shimmer.
Unless he teleported, I have a hard time believing
he just waltzed out without anyone noticing.
As far as the SWAT team, I think they only
came after Lena dialed 911 for Kane, which
triggered alarms at the NSA.
Dr. Ventress mentions that they’ve deployed
their usual unoriginal cover up narrative
of a chemical spill to avoid rampant speculation
and visitation by the masses, which seems
to have worked because most of the world is
still somehow unaware of the Shimmer’s existence
after 3 whole years.
The cover up is not going to last long with
how rapidly the Shimmer is expanding, so they’re
on the clock to figure this thing out and
stop it before they lose all control.
That’s why they are launching another expedition
in a few days led by psychologist Dr. Ventress,
followed by physicist Josie Radek, geomorphologist
Cassie Sheppard, and paramedic Anya Thorensen.
Why is a psychologist in charge of investigating
and stopping this extraterrestrial phenomenon,
dictating who goes into the Shimmer, and leading
an expeditionary unit into the unknown which
has claimed countless lives already?
Shouldn’t someone with more relevant experience
be leading this operation?
Hell, I don’t get why you’d bring a psychologist
at all.
There isn’t any strong evidence to suggest
that the Shimmer causes psychological disorders.
Humans that went inside didn’t come back
crazy, they just didn’t come back at all.
I mean Kane came back crazy, but you get my
point.
You could say that people didn’t come back
because they went crazy for some reason, but
it’s doubtful that that’s the issue because
their insentient drones became compromised
as well.
Even if the Shimmer was making them homicidal
and suicidal, she’d be affected too.
It’s not like she’s going to be sitting
down and having therapy lessons with them.
The geomorphologist, which is a person that
studies the evolution of topography by physical,
chemical, or biological processes, I kind
of get.
From their POV from outside the Shimmer, the
topography within looks unchanged or is indiscernibly
different.
So bringing someone in to study how the topography
of Earthly landmasses change is assuming that
the land is changing.
Maybe they have reason to believe there’s
a terraforming type process going on, in which
case this person could be valuable in gleaning
insights as to how these changes are occurring.
As for the physicist, yah, totally makes sense.
Energy, matter, space, time, math.
100%.
What I don’t get is why they haven’t sent
a physicist in already in the 3 years they’ve
known about the Shimmer.
And if they already have, to no success, why
send in more?
The soldiers and teams they’ve sent in prior
to this expedition would have had medical
training, which obviously didn’t help them.
Still, guess it couldn’t hurt to bring a
paramedic along.
But these choices just feel odd and haphazard.
I get the feeling, that after 3 years of failed
attempts to study it form the outside and
inside, they are getting hopeless and just
hail marrying in anyone brave, dumb, curious,
or desparate enough to volunteer.
Like Lena.
Who wants to find answers that could save
her husband’s life.
Dr. Ventress accepts her request, and why
wouldn’t she?
There's not too many scientists that are willing
to step inside a blackhole to investigate
what’s on the other side of the event horizon.
Again, at this point, why not send in a cellular
biologist.
Fuck it.
They really just handed rifles and rations
to a bunch of scientists, professors, and
doctors, and pointed them towards the alien
bubble of death with no military escort.
Yah, I’d say the government has officially
stopped caring.
We don’t know the full extent of the things
they’ve already tried.
Only what was briefly mentioned by Dr. Ventress.
Based on what we do know, could we have attacked
the Shimmer problem at its onset better than
a depressed psychologist?
I think so.
The meteorite that impacted the lighthouse
was sizable enough that it should have been
picked up by sensors or witnessed by humans,
and investigated by research teams.
Luckily it landed on a remote shoreline and
not in a major city.
Upon realizing that they most definitely are
dealing with something not from this world,
and which defies all understanding, an immediate
quarantine and cover up should be implemented.
It should go without saying that the Shimmer
should be regarded as potentially extremely
dangerous, especially considering that they
already had a person go MIA inside it.
As much data should be acquired from outside
the bubble as possible.
Even with the Shimmer border refracting and
distorting the light, you can still see inside,
and there doesn’t appear to be any notable
changes occurring.
Satellites and drones should be able to obtain
a decent level of fidelity and be able to
see what’s going on inside.
All types of sensors should be employed and
tested at the edges as well.
The next stage would be sending in drones
to run tests from within the Shimmer.
Like Dr. Ventress, I would quickly find out
that the signals would be distorted by the
Shimmer border and thus controlling the drones
via electromagnetic waves from the outside
wouldn’t be possible.
That’s not a huge problem, electricity and
machines still operate just fine within its
borders.
You could code instructions into drones to
fly a specific course and return to base,
so the drone wouldn’t need to be controlled
remotely.
You could even rig up giant overhead camera
systems like football stadiums have.
There’s only so much you could learn from
video, and they will likely need to obtain
physical samples, run experiments with mice,
and set up more advanced equipment within
the Shimmer.
Luckily, most of this could be accomplished
just inside the permeable border with minimal
human exposure.
As with many things, the answers usually lie
in the origin.
The bubble should still be small enough at
the beginning that trekking in wouldn’t
be much of a journey.
Still, you’d want to closely monitor anyone
who passed through the border, as well as
try to protect them as much as possible using
biosuits, handheld sensors, attach them to
cables to pull them out, keep them in eyesight,
have manual methods of communication that
don’t rely on electromagnetic waves, etc.
I think a more optimal and efficient method
would be to either drive in via the shoreline
or land a helicopter right next to the lighthouse.
The helicopter should be functional, there
just wouldn’t be any communications with
the outside.
If for some reason this wasn’t possible,
you could potentially parachute a team into
the lighthouse area, then use a Fulton surface-to-air
recovery system to extract them quickly.
This way they would minimize their exposure
time and get to the source immediately.
We’ll see how these strategies could impact
how the story unfolds.
Let’s continue.
Right after they pass through the Shimmer
wall, they immediately wake up at camp with
no memory of anything they did after passing
through the border.
They figure they’ve been inside for a few
days already based on the rations that have
been used up.
Perhaps passing through the Shimmer border
altered their neurochemistry which triggered
a form of amnesia.
This affliction wouldn’t have been a surprise
if they did proper testing at the border with
mice and closely monitored terminally ill
patients before yolo-ing a bunch of researchers
into the alien bermuda triangle.
Needless to say, not remembering the last
few days since you entered would be incredibly
worrying and grounds to leave immediately.
The team agrees, and attempts to locate their
position with their GPS equipment and compasses,
as well as radio their situation to the forward
operating base.
None work.
The Shimmer must be disrupting the electromagnetic
waves and the entire EM field.
Again, it should’ve been painfully obvious
that none of this would work with how previous
teams ghosted them, and if they had run literally
any tests whatsoever.
Even Dr. Ventress makes a smartass remark
about how it was ridiculous to think their
equipment would work.
Which like, cool, then why didn’t you as
team lead prepare any sort of redundancy or
backup forms of communication?
Oh, right.
Because you’re a fucking psychologist.
Things like morse code communicated via sound
or light to observers on the outside, colored
flare guns, or even a damn homing pigeon could
have been implemented.
Flare’s could also have been used for location
identification or to signal for an immediate
exfiltration so they didn’t have to hike
for 3 days back to the border after they realized
they had massive memory loss.
It’s also a bit ridiculous that there was
no implementation of situation reports, say,
every 30 minutes or so, using these forms
of manual communication.
You want a constant relaying of inside data
so if something happens to them, it doesn’t
die with them.
They currently have no idea where they are
or what direction is North, so they use the
sun and the time to orient themselves.
Point the hour hand towards the sun, and halfway
between the hour hand and 12 o clock is South.
Pretty smart.
Once oriented, they decide to head South towards
the Lighthouse because the shoreline is there,
and they can easily walk alongside it to the
border.
Which is exactly why they should have entered
via the shoreline in the first place.
But now that they are trying to get out, going
South to the shoreline doesn’t make much
sense.
The shoreline is much more likely to lead
them into the heart of the Shimmer where it’s
effects are strongest.
Going North towards their base and civilization
seems like a better idea.
Nonetheless, the team breaks camp and heads
for shore.
The next thing they come across is an abandoned
cabin with strange flowers growing around
it.
I personally wouldn’t have thought anything
of it, but Lena’s cellular biology background
is throwing off red flags.
The Shimmer appears to be causing some form
of genetic mutation or enhanced cross hybridization
in the plant life which Lena and Dr. Ventress
both suggest could be caused by disease.
It’s possible that the meteorite could have
harbored pathogens that infected the surrounding
organic life, and the EM field distortion
is being caused by an unknown element in the
meteorite.
It’s also possible that it wasn’t a meteorite
at all.
It could be an alien drone sent to Earth to
terraform it for their species.
Whatever caused these genetic mutations in
the plants could also cause them in humans.
It would explain everyone going missing and
Kane throwing up blood.
The team is likely already fucked if that’s
the case, but I wouldn’t be snacking on
plant berries or refilling my canteen in a
stream.
And on that point: I know these are unique
looking flowers and not the corpse of a little
green man, but wouldn’t you want to be wearing
some latex gloves at least.
There’s just a general lack of PPE that’s
probably going to get someone killed.
It doesn’t seem like they brought any equipment
along that they could use to examine and test
their strange findings.
They’re basically guinea pigs blindly stumbling
in the direction of the lighthouse, trying
to guess what’s going on by feel.
I’m sure this will work out for them just
fine.
Anya wants to use the boat, which I think
could be a good idea and take the load off
their legs since they’ve been hiking for
a week now.
Second thought, negative on the float trip
through mutated, hyper aggressive alligator
infested waters.
I know Josie got jumped out of nowhere, and
that they couldn’t have predicted getting
hunted by super-gators, but this is the Southeastern
area of the U.S.
They should’ve been briefed and trained
on gators being a possible threat.
All the science geeks running around like
chickens with their heads cut off is exactly
why having a military escort would’ve been
a good idea.
I will give Lena some big credit for handling
that AR15 like an absolute unit and saving
everyone’s asses though.
While Lena was sending hot lead down the red
spotted albino gator’s throat, she noticed
something odd about it’s teeth.
So they pull it’s mouth back open, and crazy
as it may sound, this gator has concentric
rows of shark teeth.
The hybrid flowers were strange.
Alligators with shark-teeth?
That’s on another level completely.
How could an alligator be sharing genetic
traits of a shark?
It’s impossible that they mated due to the
vast genetic differences between the two species,
and uh, anatomical differences.
This would imply that the mutations they are
observing could be caused by a form of horizontal
gene transfer called transduction.
Basically, an alien virus.
Here’s the problem with this theory.
They aren’t anywhere close to the ocean,
and alligators typically don’t travel very
far.
So how would this gator have come into contact
with a virus that infected a shark.
Something else is going on.
Somehow unphased by the mutated reptiles,
they hop into some canoes and navigate the
swamps until they reach Fort Amaya, the old
military headquarters that was used until
the Shimmer swallowed it.
The sides of the concrete bunkers have, as
Lena points out, colorful malignant tumors
growing on them.
There’s not much else to do but take samples
and keep heading for the exfil location.
With sundown rapidly approaching and not wanting
to be out in the open with the mutant wildlife,
they decide to set up camp in the base.
When they enter the mess hall they find the
abandoned gear of the soldiers they previously
sent in.
A bad sign, but at least there’s no bodies.
Or wait, is it worse that there are no bodies.
Guess we’ll find out soon enough.
Lena spots a guard roster with Kane’s name
on it, among other names that were suspiciously
crossed out.
She says that if the soldiers were guarding
the perimeter, they should too.
Honestly you probably should’ve been doing
that from the start, though I doubt it will
help you much if multiple special forces teams
got annihilated.
But hey, maybe your psychologist team lead
will do a better job of watching your six
while you sleep behind alien lines.
They also find a package containing a video
labeled, ‘for those that follow’.
I’m getting Halo Flood vibes here.
Okayyy.
That’s not normal, or explainable in any
way.
It would have been nice if the soldiers wrote
down a detailed report of what was going on
instead of just leaving a cryptic video.
Dr. Ventress notices the area where the video
was taken, and they find the soldier with
the snake intestines.
Whatever was happening to him progressed until
he turned into a psychonaut wit dream.
Lena takes some samples of Captain Keyes while
Josie decides to stick her bare hand in the
murky water to pick up the bloody knife that
was used to cut open the infected soldier
with snake intestines.
Do you want snake intestines, because that’s
how you get snake intestines.
Good call setting up in the guard tower for
the night, I wouldn’t want to be at ground
level with the shark-gators, man-bear-pigs,
spider-snakes, panthers with fire-ant mandibles,
or whatever other monstrosities the Shimmer
is creating.
Lena did bring a microscope after all.
How is she just now getting around to examining
the samples?
This is literally the first time anyone has
broken out a single piece of equipment on
their science expedition.
So far it’s been more like a bunch of middle
schoolers on a field trip trying to catch
butterflies.
Under the microscope, each sample's cell division
is producing a Shimmering child variant.
I’d say she should check her own blood sample
too, but I think she knows they’re already
affected.
The Shimmering child cells should’ve been
observable by testing mice and collecting
plant life samples at the border, shame they
had to figure it out like this.
For some reason Dr. Ventress is at ground
level in a guard post instead of guarding
from the tower which is a way better vantage
point, much safer, and close enough to her
team that she could get help if something
attacked.
They are in a national park full of dangerous
animals and insects that are undergoing crazy
mutations, there could be anything out there.
I’d also have brought that M249 SAW up to
the guard tower for additional firepower.
Sounds like some hungry wildlife caught a
whiff of fresh meat.
Cassie, Anya, and Josie all hear it, wake
up, and leave the safety of the guard tower
to wander into the dark tall grass where they
heard the roaring beast.
Lena is the only one who brought NVG’s,
and they are shitty gen 2 ones.
Could the government not spare some thermal
goggles or mounted flashlights for the most
important mission humans have ever embarked
on.
Then again, this whole operation has been
led by a psychologist who’s done nothing
but the bare minimum.
Hate to say it, but Cassie’s 100% dead.
No sense in running into the forest and getting
killed too.
The next morning Dr. Ventress plans to continue
on towards the lighthouse with or without
them.
Anya and Josie both want to GTFO immediately
with the evidence they have, but know they
need Lena’s help since she’s the only
one capable of defending them.
Lena agrees that they should go back, but
insists that going to the shoreline is the
best route out of the Shimmer, citing that
it took them 6 days to get here, when the
shoreline is only 2 days away.
It’s a tough call.
The lighthouse is the epicenter, so the mutations
would be worse going towards it, but once
they got to the shore it would be one long
walk on the beach and they’d be free.
If they backtracked it would probably take
longer and they’d be traversing marshlands
full of dangerous wildlife.
The only benefit is that they’d be getting
further from the source, which might not even
matter at this point.
Lena has to know that their cells are dividing
into Shimmer cells too, so their best shot
at surviving is going to the source to try
to find the off button.
You should have a map that you could use to
verify all of this super easily.
Must be the PTSD or Shimmer induced schizophrenia
that’s making her so paranoid.
Either way, I’d unload her rifle when she
wasn’t looking.
Anya and Josie both reluctantly agree to head
towards the lighthouse with Lena and Ventress.
On their way they come across Cassie's bloody
boot, and Lena splits up from the group to
confirm that Cassie was killed.
Normally i’d say splitting up is a bad idea,
but with these paranoid, untrained, panicky
idiots it’s probably best that they aren’t
behind you with their finger on the trigger.
This must have been what she was mentioning
about duplicate forms.
The way they moved is more than mutation,
it's almost like a melding of consciousness
or something.
Lena taking her rucksack off before heading
into the suspicious area where she expected
potential conflict is a nice touch and shows
her military training.
Sheppard didn’t make it.
They are currently in the bear-thing’s territory.
It could still be out here, so maybe you slack
jawed dolts should stay alert and have your
guns in low-ready until you’re out of the
danger zone.
Things continue to get stranger.
In one of the clearings there are plants in
the shape of humans.
Upon examination, Josie supposes that if you
sequenced the genome of these plant person
things, you would find semblances of the human
Hox gene, which is the gene that determines
the layout of our body.
How humans grow to be humans.
Josie has a theory on why this may be.
Surely you could have found that out with
testing done like I mentioned earlier.
It took you a week of exposure wandering around
an alien dreamscape to come to that conclusion.
If what you’re saying is true, though we
don’t know because apparently the scientific
method now means making bold assumptions without
any rigor or testing, then you all are basically
dead.
You’ll either end up as wall art, bear shit,
or have mutated so much so fast that your
self will cease to exist.
At their next camp, Anya notices her hand
changing shape.
It appears as though going towards the lighthouse
was a bad idea, woops.
Lena confirms their suspicions when she puts
her own blood under the microscope.
When each of their human cells divide, they
produce a Shimmer cell, much like the other
samples.
Hey, on the bright side, maybe they’ll gain
some superhero powers out of this.
I’m not too optimistic though.
What’s that line from the Kingsman..
Yah, this ain’t that kind of movie.
Lena’s been having flashbacks of her having
an affair while her husband was deployed.
She now realizes that Kane had found out,
and that’s why he took on more dangerous
missions like this one.
She is starting to draw connections between
the self-destructive behavior present in her,
in her husband, in all her team members, in
the genes of the cells she studies professionally,
and in the entropic conditions of the Shimmer.
Hard to say what this means or how it could
help.
It’s almost like they are fighting a force
of nature.
Anya finally snaps under the expedited entropy
present in the Shimmer, and ties up all of
her teammates.
There were two theories about what happened
to the previous teams.
That something killed them, or they all went
crazy and killed each other.
Since Anya never saw the bear or Cassie’s
body, she thinks they are all lying and conspiring
against her.
The Shimmer induced amnesia must still be
affecting them, because she most definitely
heard the bear roar and Cassie screaming for
her life.
Just before she carves open their stomachs
to see if their insides are moving, she hears
what sounds like Cassie calling for help.
Lena knows Cassie’s dead and that this is
yet another distorted form of danger, but
Anya’s skepticism of Cassie’s death compels
her to run outside to check it out.
I don’t think that was Cassie.
Yah, that’s definitely not Cassie.
Lena tells everyone to not react, which is
a bit easier said than done when face to face
with this.
Actually, I thought with black bears you are
supposed to get as big and loud as possible,
and that you’re not supposed to play dead
with them.
This is the Shimmer though, so who knows what
this thing actually is.
That explains why it sounded like Cassie screaming
outside.
Thinking back, Cassie’s body did have her
vocal cords gnawed out.
Her DNA must’ve transferred into the bear’s
throat and mutated it’s vocal structure
to replicate hers.
Staying chill seems to be working, until Anya
rolls in like a lead farmer.
She shoots way too high, misses all her shots,
and gets her jaw ripped clean off.
Josie gets free, grabs a rifle and dumps a
mag into the bear's face before Lena gets
mutilated.
The next morning Dr. Ventress heads off to
the lighthouse by herself to finish the job
before she and the rest of the crew becomes
compromised too.
With Josie currently turning into a plant,
I'd say that’s a good call.
We never see Josie’s final form, but it’s
implied she turned into a more grotesque form
of the Hox gene plants.
Lena’s only real option is to continue to
the lighthouse, meet up with Dr. Ventress,
find the source, and destroy it if possible.
She makes it to the shoreline where there
are glass trees forming out of the beach sand.
Everything they encountered up until now was
caused by genetic mutations of living matter.
How is sand turning into glass and actively
forming tree-like structures?
There are no living cells, no energy source,
no inherent capacity for movement or genetic
mutation.
This is evident that there is more to the
Shimmer than the emittance of a form of radiation
that’s refracting and transferring DNA between
living organisms.
In-front of the lighthouse there are skeletons
laid out in a ceremonious fashion, which Lena
doesn’t seem to pay much attention to.
One of the soldiers must’ve lost it and
killed their teammates before turning themselves
into the bomb shadow inside.
Like all horrific tragedies and disasters,
I'm just glad we got it on camera.
Lena does what any of us would do, hit play.
Kane nuking himself with a phosphorous grenade
on camera is fucked up, but then we find out
that the cameraman is another Kane.
Could it be a duplicate form like the deer
she saw earlier?
If so, which one was actually her husband.
I have a feeling I'm going to be left with
a lot more questions.
Lena then hears Dr. Ventress down inside the
mysterious meteorite hole and crawls in after
her.
She finds, well, I don’t know if it’s
actually Dr. Ventress anymore.
Ventress says that it’s inside them, that’s
it’s not like them, and that it will grow
until it encompasses everything.
It will fragment their bodies and minds into
their smallest parts until not one part remains.
Annihilation.
In physics, annihilation is a reaction in
which a particle and its antiparticle collide,
resulting in the particles turning into energy.
The meteorite, or UFO, whatever it is, could
be made of antimatter or emitting antiparticles
in some way.
I don’t know enough about particle physics
to speculate any further than this, and neither
does this story's creator.
Ventress then proceeds to puke technicolor
rainbows until her body glows incandescent
and evaporates into a seemingly sentient mini
nebula that seduces Lena with it’s fractal
deadlights.
I still got nothing here guys.
A drop of Lena’s blood gets gravity welled
into it, and using her DNA it creates an iridescent
metallic humanoid replica of her.
Naturally, Lena gets freaked the fuck out
and runs out of the cave, but the humanoid
teleported ahead of her.
This confirms that the Shimmer is warping
space and time in some way too.
Her humanoid is mirroring, imitating, and
almost learning from her.
It doesn’t seem to want to hurt her, but
Lena’s not taking any chances.
By detonating the bomb in its hands and seeing
the flames melt it back into its metallic
form, she realized that the original Kane
was the one that died.
For some uninterpretable reason, the humanoid
harnesses the flames and ignites the source
of the Shimmer, burning and collapsing all
it’s constructs to the ground.
I don’t even think Lena knew what she was
doing, blowing up her half-hostile doppelgänger
was just the only thing that made much sense.
This method of destroying the Shimmer wasn’t
something you could calculate, predict, or
strategize around.
Kane and Ventress both entered the cave and
were cloned or annihilated without successfully
destroying the Shimmer.
It was purely serendipitous that Lena’s
efforts succeeded.
If Lena’s mission had failed, I’d probably
have tried nuking the lighthouse as a last
ditch, but besides that I don’t know what
could have been done.
The original Lena, if you can call her that,
survives and makes it back to the base where
she’s questioned about what happened.
No real answers or explanations are provided.
Everything that had occurred just raised more
questions.
How Lena got the Ouroboros tattoo which both
Anya and snake intestines bro had, how Kane
magically healed once the Shimmer collapsed,
why the humanoid destroyed the Shimmer, how
Lena survived for 4 months without food or
if there was a time dilation, if the Shimmer
was truly gone, and on and on.
The movie ends with Lena and Kane’s humanoid
embracing each other with a Shimmer in both
their eyes.
The scientists should have discovered their
Shimmer cells when they took their blood samples.
Not sure how that would help though.
It’s possible they could reverse science
the Shimmer cells, or at minimum prevent Kane
and Lena from going back into the world and
reproducing Shimmer children.
So how could things have gone down differently?
With more comprehensive and thorough testing
done, as well as inserting teams directly
at the source instead of having humans hike
40 miles from the border to the lighthouse,
their exposure would’ve been mitigated and
chances of survival and success improved significantly.
However, the Shimmer relied on too much Serendipity
to occur to say that we could have predictably
beaten it.
So I'd say that the Shimmer was unbeaten.
Thanks for watching, and remember, if you
see a meteorite impact the Earth and a massive
shimmering bubble appears around it, don’t
wander into it to check it out yourself.